# Living in a Digital Age
Recently, the world had gone from the Agrarian Age to the Industrial Age. Now, with the rapid advancement of technologies, we are in the Digital Age.

So what is the Digital Age? It is a period that started with the advent of computers after it was discovered that information can be quantitatively encoded as ones and zeroes. The digitization of information had a profound impact on society. It led to the main feature of the age — near-instant exchange of information.

What are the most important milestones in the history of the Digital Age? To begin with,  the Digital Revolution was a result of a landmark paper from the American mathematician Claude Shannon. Secondly, in the 1970s the development of the Internet and faster microprocessors further accelerated the transmission of information. Thirdly, a decade later personal computers were adopted by normal people. Finally, with the development of the World Wide Web, the Internet turned into an interactive consumer exchange for goods and information.

The Digital Age has spawned a new kind of machine — a smart machine. It is a device that can work through tasks without human intervention. It can be fully autonomous and it is typically embedded with cognitive computing technologies. However, smart machines may have a negative impact. They dramatically change the nature of work and can lead to a high rate of unemployment.

One of the most impressive smart machines is AlphaZero. It is a chess algorithm. In 2017 it defeated another chess engine called Stockfish that had been the strongest for a decade.

Smart machine systems for transport and energy shape a smart city. Typical smart city  
infrastructure involves things such as Wi-Fi and 5G network architecture.

If you live in a smart city, chances are that you have a smart home. A smart home is a home with intelligent systems inside. The idea of a smart home sounds attractive but I wouldn’t like to live in one because these smart appliances are constantly hacked or malfunctioning.

To sum up, the Digital Age has brought us near-instant information exchange, smart machines, smart cities, smart homes and more but we should be aware about the negative impact they might have.
