# Computer essentials
Computers have become a vital part of our daily life. They are used in almost all fields. I will tell you about the essential parts of every computer, then there will be a brief computer history summary.

When you use a computer, three things are required to accomplish a task. They are hardware, software, and input. Hardware is a combination of physical devices, like CPU, keyboard, mouse, and monitor. The hardware receives commands from computer software and performs calculations. Software consists of applications and system software such as an operating system and drivers. Finally, the third thing is input. You need to tell the computer what to do.

For example, let’s pretend you want to print out something. Firstly, you need to turn on  
your hardware devices. Secondly, you provide input and tell the computer to start a printing application and print out a page. Thirdly, the software sends the information from your computer over the cable to the printer.

Computers have evolved from cumbersome and slow devices to quick and smart machines. The first computers took up entire rooms. Modern computers fit on your desktop and have incredible processing power. Many people believe that Konrad Zuse. He is known to be the creator of the first freely programmable mechanical computing device. He said he was too lazy to perform calculations by hand, so he invented the computer. During World War II, Harvard built the Mark I computer. It had a memory to store results of each step and could keep track of the many results. One of the most important achievements in computing is the ENIAC. It was commissioned during World War II by the US military for ballistics research.

As an illustration, let’s take my PC to describe modern computers. My laptop is almost 750 times faster, 1000 times cheaper, and much smaller compared to the ENIAC.

What if we make a room-size computer with modern technologies? We would get a supercomputer. Supercomputers typically use parallel processing. So to use much of the processing power of a supercomputer you need to split a problem into chunks. 

Supercomputers are typically not mass-produced. China is considered to dominate in developing such machines. Their Sunway TaihuLight which was built in 2018 is the world’s most powerful machine.

To sum up, hardware, software, and input are the three most important things about computers. Computers have come a long way since the first computer was created. Now we have supercomputers with hundreds of petaflops.