# Operating systems
We can’t imagine modern computers without operating systems, but we usually don’t see them. What does the operating system do, and why is it important?

An operating system is a software on the hard drive. It enables the computer hardware to  
communicate and operate with the computer software.

During the development of operating systems, several types of them have emerged. The first one is graphical user interface operating systems. They provide users with graphics and icons. Secondly, there are multi-user operating systems. They allow for multiple users to use the same computer at the same time. Thirdly, we have multiprocessing operating systems that support more than one computer processor. Additionally, multitasking operating systems are such systems that allow multiple software processes to run at the same time. Finally, there are multithreading operating systems. They allow different parts of a software program to run concurrently.

An operating system is one of the most important parts of a computer. Operating systems control the computer’s resources and allocate them to applications.

Operating systems must accomplish several tasks. Firstly, an operating system must provide a consistent API. Thanks to it, the programmer does not need to know the details of the underlying hardware. Not to mention, an operating system must allocate enough of the processor’s time to each process and application, and ensure that each process has enough memory to execute the process. Besides, operating systems translate the electrical signals sent from the operating system or application program to the hardware device.

Operating systems have evolved through several generations. The earliest computers had no operating system. The first operating system was implemented in early 1950s by the General Motors Research Laboratories for their IBM 701.

Let’s compare two modern operating systems, Windows and Linux. Windows is by far the  
most popular desktop operating system. So why would you need something else? The biggest advantage of operating systems based on Linux is that they are free and open source unlike Windows, which is proprietary.

To sum up, an operating system is one of the most important parts of the computer. It  
controls the computer’s resources and accomplishes other tasks. Operating systems have a long history and several generations. Also we compared two modern operating systems.