# Programming languages
Donald Knuth once said that the most important thing in the programming language was the name and that a language would not succeed without a good name. Of course, the name is not the main characteristic of a programming language. But what is it then?

Let’s start with answering the question “What are the traits important for constituting a  
programming language?” Firstly, it is a function. A programming language is used to create  
computer programs. Secondly, to express these algorithms programming languages contain constructs to define data structures or control the execution flow. To continue, the third trait is a target, programming languages allow humans to communicate instructions to machines. Finally, programming languages are classified by the computations they are capable of expressing or by their expressive power.

Although there are languages that claim to be universal, no language is generally accepted as universal one. Some programmers need simplicity, while others are comfortable with complexity. In addition, programmers may vary in their tastes.

Computer languages require a greater degree of precision and completeness unlike natural languages. Natural languages allow ambiguity and small errors and still can be understood.

The development of programming languages continues. One of the main trends is to add  
more ability to solve problems using a higher level of abstraction. New programming  become more and more independent of specific hardware.

The programming languages appeared before the computer was even invented. In the 19th century, there were “programmable” looms and player piano scrolls. Languages like that are known as domain-specific programming languages.

With the invention of an electrically powered digital computer, the first computer language  
was created. It is known as machine code. Machine code is difficult to write as it consists of ones and zeroes, so the assembly language with English abbreviations was developed. The assembly language is translated into machine code by a software called an assembler. These two languages are considered to be low-level programming languages because they are closer to the hardware, unlike high-level programming languages that are closer to human languages. Some examples are FORTRAN, C, and Java.

To sum up, programming languages are used to develop computer programs. They differ from natural languages in the level of precision. There were 3 major generations of languages: machine code, assembly, and high-level languages. I hope that the evolution of programming languages won’t stop in the future.